feat: add new component GridView and update listview support to multiplate templates (#593)
ZupIT/beagle-docs: content/en/api/components/layout/gridview.md

---
title: Gridview
weight: 340

> description: "You will find here the GridView component description, it's attributes and constructors"

Reviewer: Here you will the documentation about the GridView component, its attributes and constructors.

---

---

## What is it?

> The GridView component defines how a group of itens will position itself in a **recyclable** grid layout natively. The items in a gridview could be any server-driven component. The GridView use is more suitable for visual content and is recommended for situations where an item repeats itself but with diferent data, like for example, a card with movies details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GridView component defines how a group of items will place itself natively in a **recyclable** grid layout. The items in a GridView could be any server-driven component. The GridView use is more suitable for visual content and is recommended for situations where an item repeats itself but with different data, like a card with movies details for example.
```

| :----------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------- | :---------: | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| numColumns          |                                      Int            |   | Defines the number of columns that the GridView will display.     

| context            | [ContextData]({{< ref path="/api/context" lang="en" >}})                          |             | Defines the context of the component.                                                                                           |
| onInit             | List&lt;[Action]({{< ref path="/api/actions" lang="en" >}})&gt;                   |             | List of actions to be performed as soon as the component is displayed.                                                          |
| dataSource         | [Bind]({{< ref path="/api/context#bindings" lang="en" >}})&lt;List&lt;Any&gt;&gt; |      ✓      | Expression that points to a list of values used to populate the component.                                                      |

> | templates           | List&lt;[ServerDrivenComponent]({{< ref path="/api/components" lang="en" >}}) &gt;  |            | It represents a template array, where each template corresponds to a cell in the list through a`ServerDrivenComponent`.                                                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| templates           | List&lt;[ServerDrivenComponent]({{< ref path="/api/components" lang="en" >}}) &gt;  |            | Represents a template array, where each template corresponds to a cell in the list through a `ServerDrivenComponent`.                                                          |
```

| isScrollIndicatorVisible | Bool | | Set the scroll bar visibility. |
| onScrollEnd        | List&lt;[Action]({{< ref path="/api/actions" lang="en" >}})&gt;                   |             | List of actions taken when the list ends.                                                                                       |
| scrollEndThreshold | Int                                                       |             | Defines the percentage scrolled from the list to trigger `onScrollEnd`.                                                         |
| iteratorName       | String                                                    |             | It is the context identifier for each cell.                                                                                     |
| key                | String                                                    |             | Points to a unique value present in each item of the `dataSource` to be used as a suffix in the ids of the template components. |

### Templates

>   The template to use will be decided according to the property `case` of the template.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The template to use will be decided according to the property `case` of the template.  
```

{{% alert color="info" %}}
 The first template where `case` is `true` is the template chosen to render an item.

>  If all are `false`, then, the first template where `case` is omitted (default template) is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 If all are `false`, then the first template where `case` is omitted (default template) is used.
```

{{% /alert %}}

## How to use it?

### GridView

{{< tabs id="T146" >}}
{{% tab name="JSON" %}}

> <!-- json-playground:listView.json

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<!-- json-playground:gridView.json
```

{
  "_beagleComponent_": "beagle:container",
  "style": {
    "size": {
      "maxWidth": {
        "value": 560,
        "type": "REAL"
      }
    }
  },
  "children": [
    {
      "_beagleComponent_": "beagle:gridview",
      "numColumns": 2,
      "useParentScroll": true,

>       "children": [

Reviewer 2: this attribute does not exist, the correct one would be datasource

          "path": {
            "_beagleImagePath_": "remote",
            "url": "https://i.ibb.co/rvRN9kv/logo.png"
          },
          "style": {
            "size": {
              "width": {
                "value": 242,
                "type": "REAL"
              },
              "height": {
                "value": 225,
                "type": "REAL"
              }
            }
          }
        },
        {
          "_beagleComponent_": "beagle:image",
          "path": {
            "_beagleImagePath_": "remote",
            "url": "https://i.ibb.co/rvRN9kv/logo.png"
          },
          "style": {
            "size": {
              "width": {
                "value": 242,
                "type": "REAL"
              },
              "height": {
                "value": 225,
                "type": "REAL"
              }
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
-->

{{% playground file="gridView.json" language="pt" %}}
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab name="Kotlin DSL" %}}

```kotlin
{
     Container(
        children = listOf(
          GridView(
            numColumns = "2",
            useParentScroll = "true",

>             children = listOf(

Reviewer 2: this attribute does not exist, the correct one would be `datasource`

              Image(
                path = ImagePath.Remote(
                  url = "https://i.ibb.co/k9tYwtX/selo-do-exemplo-28420393.jpg",
                  placeholder = ImagePath.Local(mobileId = "imagePath", webUrl = "/imagePath.png")
                ),
              ).setStyle{
                  size = size
                  { width(242.unitReal()); height(225.unitReal()) },
              },
              Image(
                path = ImagePath.Remote(
                  url = "https://i.ibb.co/k9tYwtX/selo-do-exemplo-28420393.jpg",
                  placeholder = ImagePath.Local(mobileId = "imagePath", webUrl = "/imagePath.png")
                ),

>               ).setStyle{
>                   size = size
>                   { width(242.unitReal()); height(225.unitReal()) },
>               },

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
              ).setStyle {
            size = Size.box(242, 225)
        }
```
change this in all code.

---
title: Gridview
weight: 340

> description: "You will find here the description of the GridView component, its attributes and constructors"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: "You will find here the GridView component description, it's attributes and constructors"
```

---

---

## What is it?

> The componente GridView component is responsible for defining a grid of items **recyclable** natively. These items can be any server-driven components. The use of GridView is more suitable for visual content, recommended for situations where there is the repetition of components, but with different data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The GridView component defines how a group of itens will position itself in a **recyclable** grid layout natively. The items in a gridview could be any server-driven component. The GridView use is more suitable for visual content and is recommended for situations where an item repeats itself but with diferent data, like for example, a card with movies details.
```

> See how the structure is represented:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is how this component is structured:
```

---
title: Gridview
weight: 340
description: "You will find here the description of the GridView component, its attributes and constructors"
---

---

## What is it?

> O componente GridViewcomponent is responsible for defining a list in grid of items **recyclable** natively. These items can be any server-driven components. The use of GridView is more suitable for visual content, recommended for situations where there is repetition of components, but with different data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The GridView is responsible for defining a list in a grid of items **recyclable** natively. These items can be any server-driven components. The use of GridView is more suitable for visual content, recommended for situations where there is the repetition of components, but with different data.
```

| :----------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------- | :---------: | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| numColumns          |                                      Int            |   | Defines the number of columns that the GridView will display.     

| context            | [ContextData]({{< ref path="/api/context" lang="en" >}})                          |             | Defines the context of the component.                                                                                           |
| onInit             | List&lt;[Action]({{< ref path="/api/actions" lang="en" >}})&gt;                   |             | List of actions to be performed as soon as the component is displayed.                                                          |
| dataSource         | [Bind]({{< ref path="/api/context#bindings" lang="en" >}})&lt;List&lt;Any&gt;&gt; |      ✓      | Expression that points to a list of values used to populate the component.                                                      |

> | templates           | List&lt;[ServerDrivenComponent]({{< ref path="/api/components" lang="en" >}}) &gt;  |            | It represents a template array, where each template corresponds to a cell in the list through a`ServerDrivenComponent`.                                                          |

Reviewer 2: gridview has no templates

| scrollEndThreshold | Int                                                       |             | Defines the percentage scrolled from the list to trigger `onScrollEnd`.                                                         |
| iteratorName       | String                                                    |             | It is the context identifier for each cell.                                                                                     |
| key                | String                                                    |             | Points to a unique value present in each item of the `dataSource` to be used as a suffix in the ids of the template components. |

### Templates

  The template to use will be decided according to the property `case` of the template.  
{{% alert color="info" %}}
 The first template where `case` is `true` is the template chosen to render an item.
 If all are `false`, then, the first template where `case` is omitted (default template) is used.

> {{% /alert %}}

Reviewer 2: gridview has no template, remove this part.

              },
              "height": {
                "value": 225,
                "type": "REAL"
              }
            }
          }
        },
        {
          "_beagleComponent_": "beagle:image",
          "path": {
            "_beagleImagePath_": "remote",
            "url": "https://i.ibb.co/rvRN9kv/logo.png"
          },
          "style": {
            "size": {
              "width": {
                "value": 242,
                "type": "REAL"
              },
              "height": {
                "value": 225,
                "type": "REAL"
              }
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
-->

{{% playground file="gridView.json" language="pt" %}}
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab name="Kotlin DSL" %}}

```kotlin
{
     Container(
        children = listOf(
          GridView(
            numColumns = "2",
            useParentScroll = "true",
            children = listOf(
              Image(
                path = ImagePath.Remote(
                  url = "https://i.ibb.co/k9tYwtX/selo-do-exemplo-28420393.jpg",
                  placeholder = ImagePath.Local(mobileId = "imagePath", webUrl = "/imagePath.png")
                ),

>               ).applyStyle(

Reviewer 2: replace deprecated function to the new function setStyle

Reviewer 2: this comment is valid to all `applystyle`
